So we got our first class added,
now our code however still is such that all the logic lives in the product list,
time to change that too. Let's add another class because we can not just create classes which predefine
objects which are basically data containers, we can also create classes for objects which hold more
logic so that in the end our entire application logic is split up across multiple classes which we then
just connect in some clever way.
So therefore, we could create a class here which we just name product list, again starting with a capital
P here.
Now such a product list class could have our products array
and now here, that could be a case where we set this as a field and set this to a value right away,
the value of course can be our array which I otherwise would have created down there, so
let me cut the logic from there,
we'll remove that code at the bottom anyways later and initialize products to be an array.
Now again, what will happen here is that when we create an object based on this class, a product's property
will be added automatically and the default value will be that array.
Now we could add a constructor here but we won't need to set this products to anything because
we initialize it anyways. So we don't need to do that here,
let's leave it empty for now, we'll see if we need it, instead what I want to add here is a method and
that's my render method which we also have down there, right?
So we can take that logic with which we have in the render method and in the end,
cut it from there,
remove this entire product list object therefore and just put everything here into the render method
in the class. With that we haven't gained much but we're getting there.
Now we have to fix the code down there, product list here no longer exists,
instead now we have to instantiate our class, maybe create a product list object now with new product
list and then there, we could call productList.render, like that.
That's how we could do it and if we save it, with that we should see the same result
as before if we reload but we're not there yet,
it's not the final result I want. Instead now I want to outsource the logic for a single product,
so what we render for a single product into another class. So add another class and the order of classes
by the way does not matter, when your script loads, Javascript will parse it entirely before it executes
it and all the classes are then understood and recognized by the Javascript engine,
so if I refer to a class inside of product list, I don't have to define it in front of product list,
I could define it thereafter, Javascript will be aware of all classes,
same here for product, I'm using product in product list, the same code would also work if I cut product,
if I cut the product class from there and move it here to the bottom after the product list class,
only important thing,
all your classes have to be defined before you execute any code where you might use them.
So if I would move the product class after these two lines, we would get an error, moving it here will
work though.
So if I now save that and I reload, you will see the same output as before.
Still, here
I like to have my product class first,
also because it's a pretty simple class which just defines the structure of very simple object
but the class order does not matter as long as you define all classes before you execute any code where
you need them
but back to our new class and that would be the product item class let's say.
Of course these class names are always up to you and that should be a class that is responsible for
rendering a single product item unsurprisingly. For that, we can add a constructor and we could accept
a couple of properties that make up a product, to be precise title, imageUrl
and so on.
Basically what we already have in there and therefore we can also accept the overall product object
which we get.
So then here we could say this product is equal to product and I just expect to get a product which
has this structure here in product item.
I do split this into a product in a product item object here because this product up there should just define
how a simple product looks like, just which data is in there,
it just is there to group data together.
Product item down here should not group data together or not primarily,
instead this class will now also hold the logic to render a single product item.
So here we could add another render method and of course you can name this method however you want,
doesn't have to be named render and then there, I want to have the logic for creating that single product
element. So we can actually cut all that code here, cut it from the product list and move it into this
render method of product item, so that I create my product element there with document create element
and now here of course when I access imageUrl and so on, I have to reach out to my product property,
so in here since render belongs to this class here, it should normally be called on an object created
with that class,
so therefore here we should have this available and this should refer to the object created based on
the class
Now on this, we should have a product property, so we should be able to do this.product and then
.imageUrl because every product object has an imageUrl property. So same for the title,
should be this.product.title,
also of course down there, this.product.title,
this.product.price and this.product.description, that should all be available here.
Now with that, I have the logic to render a single product in my product item,
the problem we have here is that this creates a product element but doesn't know where to append it.
Now we get two possible solutions for that, solution
A is that the render method accepts an element, a DOM object where we can call append and append this to
or that in this render method, we instead return the created product
and wherever we call render, we have the responsibility to then use that returned object and append
it and that's the approach I'll go for, I will return prod el in here, in render and now we can just go
to the product list and in here where I go through all products, we can now create a product with new product
item, let's also maybe name it product item here,
so by using the product item class we just worked on and constructing an object based on it , to that
as you learned, you have to pass a product,
that's what we expect in the constructor and that's what we pass between parentheses when we create
a new object with the new keyword and prod here
where I through all products in product list conveniently is just such a product object.
So here we can just pass in prod and then we can create our prod el or get access to the created prod
el here by calling productItem.render and as you learned, render will return this new object.
So now we can append product element again because prod el is such a DOM object created by render but
by render in product item and now we might be able to see the advantages of this object oriented approach
become clearer. Now we already split our logic in some classes and yes of course it's still in the same
file but if you are now coming to this code, if you're a new developer working on the project and you
want to find out where's the logic for rendering a single product, then you don't have to scan through
all the file, you just have to find this product item class and it will be pretty clear that yes here,
this is what's responsible for rendering a single product element and you don't have to worry about
the other code. So it can make your code more readable and more structured and that's the idea behind
Object Oriented Programming. Well with that, let's save all of that and let's reload this page and again
we get the same result as before but now with two classes that are involved in rendering content and
now this also shows you how you can have classes with logic attached to them besides having classes
that are just blueprints for data containers which also of course are very useful but here, this helps
us split our logic which makes our code more readable.